Abbriviation

DSL     digital subscriber line
DSLAM   digital subscriber line access multiplexer
CO      central office
HFC     hybrid fiber coax
CMTS    cable modem termination system
FTTH    fiber to the home
AONs    active optical networks:a kind ofoprical-distribution network architecture
PONs    passive optical nerworks: like AONs
ONT     optical network terminator: in user's home
OLT     optical line terminator: in the telco's CO
LAN     local area network
LTE     Long-Term Evolution
UTP     unshielded twisted pair
LEO     low-earth orbiting
FDM     frequency-division multiplexing: one of the way that a circuit in a link implenmented
TDM     time-division multiplexing
PoPs    points of presence:A PoP is simply a group of one or more routers (at the same location) in the provider’s network where customer ISPs can connect into the provider ISP.
IXP     Internet Exchange Point
DoS attacks     denial-of-servece attack:As the name suggests, a DoS attack renders a network, host, or other piece of infrastructure unusable by legitimate users.
DDos    distributed DoS
SSL     secure socket layer: an enhancement for TCP, for improvement of security
HTTP    HyperText Transfer Protocol
RTT     round-trip time:the time it takes for a small packet to travel from client to server and then back to the client.
POP    Post Office Protocol: a kind of mail access protocol
IMAP    Internet Mail Access Protocol : as above
DNS     Domain Name System
RRs     Resource Records : records that provide hostname-to-IP address mappings
DHTs    distributed Hash Tables:
UDP     User Datagram Protocol
TCP     Transmission Control Protocol
IP      Internet Protocol
FSM     finite-stare machine
ARQ     Automatic Repeat reQuest : In communication, receiver user positive3 ack or negative ack to let sender know whether the message is received correct or wrong. We call reliable data transfer protocols based on such retransmission ARQ protocols.
GBN     Go-Back-N:the sender is allowed to transmit multiple packets (when available) without waiting for an acknowledgment, but is constrained to have no more than some maximum allowable number, N, of unacknowledged packets in the pipeline.
SR      Selective Repeat
MSS     maximum segment size: the maximum segment size can be grabbed and placed in a TCP  buffered data segment.Note that MSS is the maximum amount of application-layer data in the segment.
MTU     maximum transmission unit:largest link-layer frame that can be sent by the local sending host.
EWMA    exponetial weighted moving average
DCCP    datagram congestion control protocol
SCTP    stream control transmission protocol
TFRC    TCP-Friendly rate control protocol
NAT     network address translation
ICMP    Internet Control Message Protocol:used by hosts and routers to communicate network-layer information to each other.
TOS     type of service: one field of IP datagram
TTL     time-to-live : a IP datagram file to ensure that datagrams do not circulate forever
MTU     maximum transmission unit: the maximum amount of data that a link-layer frame can carry.
CIDR    Classless Interdomain Routing : the Internet's address assignment strategy
ICANN   Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers:a global authority that has ultimate responsibility for managing the IP address space and allocating address blocks to ISPs and other organizations
DHCP    Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol: it allows a host to obtain(be allocated) an IP address automatically.
NAT     network address translation
UPnP    Universal Plug and Play
MAC     medium access control protocol
NIC     network interface card
EDC     error-detection and -correction
FEC     forward error correction: the ability of the receiver to both detect and correct errors
CRC     Clycling Redundancy Check: an error-detection technique
PPP     point-to-point protocol
HDLC    high-level data link control

Termiology
packet switches :
    Between source and destination, each packet travels through them.There are two predominant types, routers and linklayer switches
circuit-switched networks :
    In circuit-switched networks, the resources needed along a path (buffers, link
    transmission rate) to provide for communication between the end systems are
    reserved for the duration of the communication session between the end systems.
segment         : transport layer packket
datagram        : network-layer packet
transport-layer multiplexing and demultiplexing     : UDP and TCP extend host-to-host delivery to process-to-process delivery
TCP segments    : each chunk of client data with a TCP header.
forwarding and routing functions of the network layer: Forwarding involves the transfer of a packet from an incoming link to an outgoing link within a single router. Routing involves all of a network’s routers, whose collective interactions via routing protocols determine the paths that packets take on their trips from source to destination node.
virtual-cirtuit network : Computer networks that provide only a connection service at the network layer are called virtual-circuit (VC) networks.
datagram network :Computer networks that provide only a connectionless service at the network layer are called datagram networks.
IPsec : a kind of secure network-layer protocol
LS algorithms : link-state altorithms,a global algorithm that has complete information about connectivity and link costs.
DV algorithms : distance-vector algorithm, adecentralized routing algorithm.
